---
layout: post
title: Iris AI #02
excerpt_separator:  <!--more-->
---

## Iris AI

Website: https://iris.ai/


Ever started on a new topic of research and wondered where to start? Although the power of Google searches and forums/respositories such as Reddit and arXiv, the Information Age has presented us with a new problem: Too much information. Hundreds of tutorials, thousands of papers, all accessible online for free or a small amount of cash, it is so easy to get lost and lose track of things. Iris AI attempts to solve this problem, by creating an AI powered science assistant that personalizes in your field of interest and research. By visualizing your problem into a map of articles, it enables users to fine tune the results by using an editor for results. It is the ultimate tool to hunt down your perfect exact reading list. 



Started at Singularity University at NASA Ames Research Park, and based primarily in Olso, Iris AI boasts a team of 20 multinationals. Their vision, according to their website:


	"Iris.ai is an Artificial Intelligence that starts out as a Science Assistant; helping you find the science you need. Over time she will learn, slowly but surely becoming a Scientist herself."


Personally, I picked Iris AI because I use it. Easy as that. A few months back, I stumbled on Iris AI by reading a blog post about it. They were tech superstars, who had recently raised roughtly $2 million to support themselves. Doubling revenue every quarter in 2017, and at customer capacity, this company has some solid Scandanavian investors. Anyway, I checked out their website, created an account, and went straight ahead to using Iris. You can start by either traning or exploring, using a paper url or TED talk that Iris will analyze. So far, I mostly use the explore feature, as I just need to calibrate and tweak Iris to look for what I'm interested on. Most of my time is spent on reading the papers itself, or looking at each sub-categories, or, well, googling if there is an English version of this paper. It really saves up a lot of my time reading other blog posts, not that I don't enjoy it or do it anyway, but for a newbie like me, not knowing where to look and start is quite discouraging. And haven't we all fancied working for companies of products that we use on a daily basis? So there you go.



The interview process seemed straightforward: fill in form, with application and resume, which results either in an interview with a live coding session, or well, rejection. Iris AI, is primarily based on Oslo, but it seems that they have multiple locations where they base themselves. So either their team is split, or they work from home. It is not clear about what kind of benefits they have, but I'm sure with such a rockstar team, the benefits must be immense, or work environment must be amazing, or both. They seem to have quite a number of open positions, but look for those who have a solid understanding of software coding, because most roles focus on designing software segments, planning, and then the implementation. At least, until they took the join page down. So I guess they aren't looking for developers for now. 


http://www.slush.org/news/iris-ai-raises-2m-seed-round-announces-new-ai-tokenization-system/
https://www.computerweekly.com/news/450431516/Enterprise-focused-startups-on-the-rise-in-Nordics
http://www.slush.org/news/iris-ai-raises-2m-seed-round-announces-new-ai-tokenization-system/
https://iris.ai/
